---
title: "SAT and ACT Testing"
published: false
date: 2020-07-03
toc: true
categories:
    - "Standardized Testing"
tags:
    - "Standardized Testing"
    - SAT
    - ACT
---

*This article will only cover the SAT (also known as the SAT I) and ACT. Because I only took the SAT, I will mainly focus on that exam. However, you can apply the study tips and tricks I provide here to both exams. I will discuss the SAT Subject Tests (also known as the SAT IIs) in a seperate article.*

Standardized testing requirements form a major part of your college application. College admissions officers want to see what you know, how well you recall it, and how you can apply it to solve problems in a timed—and admittedly stressful—environment. Of all components of your application package aside from coursework and extracurriculars, you will spend the most time preparing for and taking the SAT and/or ACT.

## What is the SAT?

The SAT (Scholastic Assessment Test) is a standardized test developed and administered by the CollegeBoard, an American not-for-profit organization. There are five sections to the SAT: reading, writing/grammar, math without calculator, math with calculator, and an **optional** essay section. See the comparision table below for more details.

## What is the ACT?

The ACT (American College Test) is a standardized test developed and adminitered by the ACT Inc., an American non-profit organization. There are five sections to the ACT: English, math, reading, scientific reasoning, and an **optional** essay section. Again, see the comparision table below for more details.

## Comparision chart

<!-- Comparision chart between the SAT and ACT will go here -->